src/content/posts/how-to-use-icons.md, before:

---
title: 如何在 Gyoza 中使用图标？
date: 2024-05-08T10:54:27.000Z
tags: [Icon]
category: 教程
comments: true
draft: false
---

Gyoza 选择 font-class 的方式引用图标。这些图标大部分来源于 [Remix Icons](https://remixicon.com/)，并且在 [iconfont](https://www.iconfont.cn/) 上进行管理和导出。

下图展示了项目中的所有图标：

![所有图标](https://s2.loli.net/2024/05/08/mbdT5HqYMEajyRG.webp)

当你在添加首页显示的社交账号时，你可能会想要使用这些图标。在对应的配置项中填写图标下面有 `icon-` 前缀的名称即可。

如果是在组件中使用图标，可以按照如下方式：

```jsx
<i className="iconfont icon-xxx"></i>
```

## 为什么不是 SVG 图标？

你可能看到很多的项目在使用 [iconify](https://iconify.design/)。iconify 是一个开源图标集，包含超过 20 万个图标，提供了多种框架的引入方式。Astro 中也有对应的插件 astro-icon 可以使用（如果对此感兴趣，可以查看他们的[文档](https://github.com/natemoo-re/astro-icon)）。

我在项目中也尝试使用过 iconify，但是出于以下几个原因，我最终还是转向了 font-class 的方式：

- 由于项目中同时使用了 Astro 和 React，而在 Astro 组件和 React 组件中使用 iconify 图标的方式是不同的，这会导致代码中不得不存在两种使用方式。
- iconify 在加载时需要请求它的服务器，~~我会担心请求失败~~，虽然这种担心是多余的。
- 有一个功能是我会在渲染文章时往 markdown 中注入一些图标，例如外部链接尾部的图标，iconify 想要做到这一点并不方便。
- 在 HTML 中直接嵌入 SVG icon 的方式并不优雅，使用 font-class 只需要对应的类名，感觉相较而言最终的 HTML 体积小一点，页面加载会快点。我还没有做过具体的测试，但是至少我会尽量避免页面中出现大量的 SVG 仅仅只是作为图标使用。
- 该项目中用到的图标并不多，主要是一些常用的社交账号的图标，供自定义联系方式时使用。我希望所有图标集中在一起管理，这样更方便一点。

我必须要承认，目前的图标方案并不优雅，每当图标集合发生修改时我都需要更新对应的字体文件和 CSS 文件。而且其他人想要管理图标集合也变得困难。

也许我会在未来尝试其他方式，例如 [@iconify/tailwind](https://github.com/iconify/iconify/tree/main/plugins/tailwind)，如果你有更好的方案，也欢迎给我留言。

## 自定义图标

如果你想要替换 iconfont 的图标，请修改以下文件：

```text
public/fonts/iconfont.ttf
public/fonts/iconfont.woff
public/fonts/iconfont.woff2
src/styles/iconfont.css
```

注意，这将会替换掉项目中使用的所有图标，所以请确保你知道自己在做什么。

Commit message:

refactor: update lockfile and standardize ignored files
Replaced `pnpm-lock.yaml` with `package-lock.json` in `.prettierignore` and included the new `package-lock.json`. Removed `profile.jpg` and added `profile.png`, likely optimizing or updating resource handling.

src/content/posts/how-to-use-icons.md, after:

---
title: How to use icons in Gyoza?
date: 2024-05-08T10:54:27.000Z
tags: [Icon]
category: tutorials
comments: true
draft: false
---

Gyoza chooses to refer to icons in a font-class manner. Most of these icons are derived
from [Remix Icons](https://remixicon.com/) and are managed and exported on [iconfont](https://www.iconfont.cn/).

The following image shows all the icons in the project:

![All Icons](https://s2.loli.net/2024/05/08/mbdT5HqYMEajyRG.webp)

You may want to use these icons when you are adding the social accounts displayed on the homepage. Just fill in the
corresponding configuration item with the name that has the `icon-` prefix under the icon.

If you are using the icons in a component, you can do it as follows:

```jsx
<i className="iconfont icon-xxx"></i>
```

## Why not SVG icons?

You've probably seen a lot of projects using [iconify](https://iconify.design/). iconify is an open source icon
collection of over 200,000 icons that provides a variety of ways to bring in frameworks. Astro has a corresponding
plugin, astro-icon, that you can use (if you're interested, check out their [documentation](https://iconify.design/)). (
see their [documentation](https://github.com/natemoo-re/astro-icon) if you're interested).

I tried to use iconify in my project, but I switched to the font-class approach for several reasons:

- Since the project uses both Astro and React, and the way iconify icons are used in Astro components and React
  components is different, this results in the code having to have two ways of using them.
- Iconify requires a request to its server when loading, and ~~ I'd be worried about the request failing ~~, although
  that worry is redundant.
- There is a feature where I would inject some icons into markdown when rendering a post, such as the icons at the end
  of external links, and iconify doesn't make it easy to do that.
- Embedding SVG icons directly into HTML is not elegant, and using font-class only requires the corresponding class
  name, which feels like the final HTML is smaller in comparison and the page will load faster. I haven't done any
  specific testing yet, but at the very least I'll try to avoid having a lot of SVGs on the page just as icons.
- There aren't many icons used in this project, mainly icons for common social accounts for customizing contact
  information. I would like to keep all the icons in one place to make it a bit easier to manage.

## Customizing icons

If you want to replace the iconfont icon, modify the following file:

```text
public/fonts/iconfont.ttf
public/fonts/iconfont.woff
public/fonts/iconfont.woff2
src/styles/iconfont.css
```

Note that this will replace all the icons used in the project, so make sure you know what you're doing.
